Centering in CSS (#29609)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/layout_cookbook/center_an_element/index.md

>
> [Download this example](https://github.com/mdn/css-examples/blob/main/css-cookbook/center--download.html)

## Using flexbox

> To center a box within another box, first turn the containing box into a [flex container](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Basic_concepts_of_flexbox#the_flex_container) by settings its {{cssxref("display")}} property to `flex`. Then set {{cssxref("align-items")}} to `center` for vertical centering (on the block axis) and {{cssxref("justify-content")}} to `center` for horizontal centering (on the inline axis). And that's all it takes to to center one box inside another!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To center a box within another box, first turn the containing box into a [flex container](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Basic_concepts_of_flexbox#the_flex_container) by settings its {{cssxref("display")}} property to `flex`. Then set {{cssxref("align-items")}} to `center` for vertical centering (on the block axis) and {{cssxref("justify-content")}} to `center` for horizontal centering (on the inline axis). And that's all it takes to center one box inside another!
```

### HTML

```html
<div class="container">
  <div class="item">I am centered!</div>
</div>
```

### CSS

```css
div {
  border: solid 3px;
  padding: 1em;
  max-width: 75%;
}
.container {
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
  height: 8em;
}
```

We included a height on the container to demonstrate that the item is, in fact, vertically centered.

### Result

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Using_flexbox', 400, 200) }}

Alternatively, we could have set {{cssxref("align-self", "align-self: center;")}} on the flex item instead of `align-items: center;` on the container.

## Using grid

> Another method of centering one box inside another is to make the containing box a grid container and set {{cssxref("place-items", "place-items: center" )}} on it to center its items on both the block axis and inline axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another method you can use for centering one box inside another is to first make the containing box a [grid container](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Basic_concepts_of_grid_layout#grid_container) and then set its {{cssxref("place-items")}} property to `center` to center align its items on both the block and inline axes.
```

### HTML

```html
<div class="container">
  <div class="item">I am centered!</div>
</div>
```

### CSS

```css
div {
  border: solid 3px;
  padding: 1em;
  max-width: 75%;
}
.container {
  display: grid;
  place-items: center;
  height: 8em;
}
```

### Result

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Using_grid', 400, 200) }}

> Alternatively, we could have set {{cssxref("place-content", "place-content: center;")}} on the container instead or set either {{cssxref("place-self", "place-self: center")}} or {{cssxref("margin", "margin: auto;")}} on the item itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of applying `place-items: center;` on the container, you can achieve the same centering by setting {{cssxref("place-content", "place-content: center;")}} on the container or by applying either {{cssxref("place-self", "place-self: center")}} or {{cssxref("margin", "margin: auto;")}} on the inner item itself.
```
